# GuitARtist
People hesitate to invest for daughters to pursue a career in arts.The dearth of tutors and time clashes don't help this cause either. Thus women often experience exclusion in instrumental music education. Our Augmented Reality (AR) app GuitARtist aims to bridge that gap by providing a virtual tutor that allows you to learn at your own leisurely pace and at a place of your convenience.

GuitARtist has multiple methods of teaching to cater the needs of beginners, intermediate learners and professionals by assisting them in the different ways with the finger positions and strumming. The closest existing apps with the same goal as ours all have a preset database of songs which don't give the learners independence to try out their personal favorites. Moreover, they also require the user to concentrate on the app and the instrument, which are far apart, at the same time, causing an unnecessary delay in the learning process.

To overcome these limitations, we propose GuitARtist- an app that lets the learner upload any song they wish to learn and view their instrument through their phone to find the chords to be played highlighted upon the guitar as the song goes on. This nullifies the second problem stated, by superimposing the objects so that the user does not lose time while switching his attention between the app and the instrument.

We plan to use Unity and Vuforia as the main tools to build the app. Once the song is chosen, our app web scrapes for the audio file corresponding to that particular song-name. The user is also free to decide the pitch they would like to play the song at. We plan to obtain the chords with the help of modules such as librosa and pyAudioAnalysis. Using the chords thus obtained we map the notes to be played on the guitar. Once this has been done, we instantiate the corresponding fret positions on top of the existing instrument using Vuforia SDK which looks for a particular image (A sticker that needs to be attached at the head of the guitar) as a reference for the position of object instantiation. The strumming pattern will be specified separately as text at the top right corner of the app. The different finger positions on the fret are color coded to make it easier for the user to identify which finger goes where.

We hope to make this app better by performing analysis on the way the chords are supposed to be played versus how the user plays it, to point out where the user is going wrong, in real time. This would make GuitARtist a complete in-your-pocket tutor!
